Doc: update GSG guide to avoid issue "black screen" (#1859)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/getting-started/apl-nuc.rst

   and follow the `Clear Linux installation guide
   <https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/get-started/bare-metal-install>`__
   as a starting point for installing Clear Linux onto your platform.  Follow the recommended

>    options for choosing an **Manual** installation type, and using the platform's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   options for choosing an **Manual (Advanced)** installation type, and using the platform's
```

   storage as the target device for installation (overwriting the existing data
   and creating three partitions on the platform's storage drive).
   
   High-level steps should be: 
   

>    #.  Install Clear on a NUC Use the "Manual" option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #.  Install Clear on a NUC using the "Manual (Advanced)" option.
```

   #.  Use default partition scheme for storage
   #.  Name the host "clr-sos-guest"

>    #.  Add an administrative user "clear" with "sudoers" privilege

Reviewer: @gvancuts Are you OK with telling folks **what** to do but not **how** to do it?  (Do we need the actual commands here to show how to "Add an administrative user with sudoers privilege", and some of these other steps?)

Reviewer 2: I haven't tried it but if how the steps to do so via the `Manual (Advanced)` installation option are obvious, we can leave it as it is. Maybe, make it clearer that the manual option is from the Clear Linux installer (and is called `Manual (Advanced)`).

   #.  Add these additional bundles "editors", "user-basic", "desktop-autostart", "network-basic"
   #.  For network, choose “DHCP”

#. After installation is complete, boot into Clear Linux, login as

>    **clear**, and set a password.

Author: yes, it was created when installing bare metal system

>    **clear**, and set a password.

Reviewer 2: When I went through these steps, I did not have to set up a password after a reboot, it was done during the installation

#. Clear Linux is set to automatically update itself. We recommend that you disable
   this feature to have more control over when the updates happen. Use this command
   to disable the autoupdate feature:

   .. code-block:: none

>       # sudo swupd autoupdate --disable

Reviewer: The ``#`` prompt indicates you're already an admin, so change the prompt to ``$`` (or leave off the sudo).

   .. note::
      The Clear Linux installer will automatically check for updates and install the
      latest version available on your system. If you wish to use a specific version
      (such as 26200), you can achieve that after the installation has completed using
      ``sudo swupd verify --fix --picky -m 26200``
       
#. If you have an older version of Clear Linux already installed
   on your hardware, use this command to upgrade Clear Linux
   to version 26200 (or newer):

   .. code-block:: none

>       # sudo swupd update -m 26200     # or newer version

Reviewer: same prompt issue here (I won't mention the others that need to change below too).

#. Use the ``sudo swupd bundle-add`` command and add these Clear Linux bundles:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo swupd bundle-add service-os kernel-iot-lts2018 \

>           openssh-server

Reviewer 2: Is there any specific reason why you are not adding those bundles already as part of the manual installation steps?

Reviewer 2: OK

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo ls -1 /boot/EFI/org.clearlinux
      bootloaderx64.efi
      kernel-org.clearlinux.native.4.19.1-654
      kernel-org.clearlinux.iot-lts2018-sos.4.19.0-19
      kernel-org.clearlinux.iot-lts2018.4.19.0-19
      kernel-org.clearlinux.pk414-sos.4.14.74-115
      loaderx64.efi

   .. note::

>       On Clear Linux, the EFI(/dev/sda1) partion is mounted to /boot by default

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      On Clear Linux, the EFI System Partion (e.g.: ``/dev/sda1``) is mounted under ``/boot`` by default
```

   .. code-block:: none

>       $ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt

Reviewer 2: This is actually not needed. The ESP is already mounted under `/boot`. Can you remove this step and adjust the path in the steps below?

>       $ sudo ls -1 /mnt/EFI/org.clearlinux

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo ls -1 /boot/EFI/org.clearlinux
```

      bootloaderx64.efi
      kernel-org.clearlinux.native.4.19.1-654
      kernel-org.clearlinux.iot-lts2018-sos.4.19.0-19
      kernel-org.clearlinux.iot-lts2018.4.19.0-19

>       kernel-org.clearlinux.pk414-sos.4.14.74-115

Reviewer 2: I guess this is installed by the `service-os` bundle, isn't it?

@miguelinux , are we still using that `sos` kernel on any platform?

   .. code-block:: none

>       $ sudo mkdir /mnt/EFI/acrn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo mkdir /boot/EFI/acrn
```

>       $ sudo cp /usr/lib/acrn/acrn.efi /mnt/EFI/acrn/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo cp /usr/lib/acrn/acrn.efi /boot/EFI/acrn/
```

   .. code-block:: none

>       $ sudo cp /usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/acrn.conf /mnt/loader/entries/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      $ sudo cp /usr/share/acrn/samples/nuc/acrn.conf /boot/loader/entries/
```

   .. note::
      It is also possible to use the device name directly, e.g. ``root=/dev/sda3``

>    After finished modification, don't forget running "umount" to umount EFI partition:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   .. code-block:: none

>       $ sudo umount /mnt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   
#. Add a timeout period for Systemd-Boot to wait, otherwise it will not
   present the boot menu and will always boot the base Clear Linux

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo clr-boot-manager set-timeout 20
      $ sudo clr-boot-manager update

#. Enable and start the ssh server, so you can login remotely using an ssh client:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo systemctl enable sshd
      $ sudo systemctl start sshd

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove this section above.

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo clr-boot-manager set-timeout 20
      $ sudo clr-boot-manager update

> #. Enable and start the ssh server, so you can login remotely using an ssh client:

Reviewer 2: If I remember correctly, this is not needed and the `sshd` service is enabled by default. To be more precise, the `sshd.socket` is active (not the `sshd` service).

Author: not a key point, we can mark it as the "optional" to make sure ssh is available from remotely access,
ssh is a check point here, even without "ssh enabled" steps

Reviewer 2: Please remove this. It's not needed and it enabling `sshd` a different it already is. It can help us simplify this GSG.
```suggestion
```

> #. Enable ssh, so that you can login from other ssh client 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Enable and start the ssh server, so you can login remotely using an ssh client:
```

      Reboot Into Firmware Interface

#. After booting up the ACRN hypervisor, the Service OS will be launched

>    automatically by default, and Clear Linux desktop will be showing with user "clear"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   automatically by default, and the Clear Linux desktop will be showing with user "clear",
```

>    , or you can login with "ssh" client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (or you can login remotely with an "ssh" client).
```

> #. From ssh client, you login as user "clear" using the password you set previously when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. From ssh client, login as user "clear" using the password you set previously when
```

   you installed Clear Linux.

> #. After reboot system, you need to check and make sure the ACRN hypervisor is running properly, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. After rebooting the system, check that the ACRN hypervisor is running properly with: 
```

>    checking way is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   .. code-block:: none

Reviewer: I'd condense this down to this:

```
.. code-block:: none

   $ dmesg | grep ACRN
   [    0.000000] Hypervisor detected: ACRN
   [    1.687128] ACRNTrace: acrn_trace_init, cpu_num 4
   [    1.693129] ACRN HVLog: acrn_hvlog_init

If you see log information similar to this, the ACRN hypervisor is running properly
and you can start deploying a User OS.  If not, verify the EFI boot options, SOS
kernel, and ``acrn.conf`` settings are correct (as described above).
```

   .. code-block:: none

      $ cd ~
      $ mkdir uos
      $ cd uos

>       $ curl -O https://download.clearlinux.org/releases/26200/clear/clear-26200-kvm.img.xz

Reviewer 3: @ailun258 if we change the uos image download directory to ~/uos,  may be better to modify "-s 3,virtio-blk,/root/clear-26200-kvm.img" line in launch_uos.sh

Author: right, accepted

   .. code-block:: none

      # cd ~

>       # mkdir uos

Reviewer: since you changed the commands in the previous section to not be running as root, should all these prompts be a ``$`` now too?

   .. code-block:: none

      $ unxz clear-26200-kvm.img.xz

#. Deploy the UOS kernel modules to UOS virtual disk image (note: you'll need to use
   the same **iot-lts2018** image version number noted in step 1 above):

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo losetup -f -P --show clear-26200-kvm.img

>       $ sudo mount /dev/loop0p3 /mnt

Reviewer 2: That reminds me that we never instruct the user to `umount /mnt` after we have modified the ESP to add the `acrn.efi` and `acrn.conf`. Can you add that instruction above?

      # unxz clear-26200-kvm.img.xz

#. Deploy the UOS kernel modules to UOS virtual disk image (note: you'll need to use
   the same **iot-lts2018** image version number noted in step 1 above):

   .. code-block:: none

>       # sudo losetup -f -P --show clear-26200-kvm.img

Reviewer: again, if you're using ``sudo`` the prompt should be ``$``

      In case you have downloaded a different Clear Linux image than the one above
      (``clear-26200-kvm.img.xz``), you will need to modify the Clear Linux file name
      and version number highlighted above (the ``-s 3,virtio-blk`` argument) to match

>       what you have downloaded above. otherwise, you may need to adjust the kernel file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      what you have downloaded above. Otherwise, you may need to adjust the kernel file
```
